Update stream documentation bringing explanation of some errors (#6995)
netdata/netdata: streaming/README.md

For a practical example see [Monitoring ephemeral nodes](#monitoring-ephemeral-nodes).

## Troubleshooting streaming connections

> Sometimes when you are configuring master and slave nodes you can have some errors in your log files, in this section it

Reviewer: This section describes the most common issues you may encounter in a connection between a slave and a master.

Author: It is done.

Reviewer: Not "it is described the most common errors". Just copy paste what I wrote.

Author: Considering that you approved this, I am considering that you saw I had copied your text to the documentation! :)

is described the most common errors.

### Connection between slave and master is slow

When you have a slow connection between master and slave, Netdata can raise different errors related to this problem.

> The slave Netdata will log a majority of error messages.

Reviewer: Most of the errors will appear in the slave's `error.log`

```
netdata ERROR : STREAM_SENDER[SLAVE HOSTNAME] : STREAM SLAVE HOSTNAME [send to MASTER IP:MASTER PORT]: too many data pending - buffer is X bytes long,
Y unsent - we have sent Z bytes in total, W on this connection. Closing connection to flush the data.
```

> The the value X, Y, Z and W are integer numbers.

Reviewer: Remove this line. not needed

Author: It was removed.

> On the other hand, in the master side you can have different reports where the most common message that you can see is

Reviewer: On the master side you may see various different error messages, but the most common one is the following:

```
netdata ERROR : STREAM_RECEIVER[SLAVE HOSTNAME,[SLAVE IP]:SLAVE PORT] : read failed: end of file
```

> Another common problem is the slave sends only part of the message for the master. In this case, the master

Reviewer: Another common problem in slow connections is the slave sending a partial the message to the master. In this case, the master will write the following inside `error.log`:

will not have condition to understand the message received and it will write the following inside `error.log`:

```
ERROR : STREAM_RECEIVER[SLAVE HOSTNAME,[SLAVE IP]:SLAVE PORT] : sent command 'B' which is not known by netdata, for host 'HOSTNAME'. Disabling it.
```

In this example, 'B' was part of a 'BEGIN' message that was cut due connection problems.

The last problem related to slow connections happens when some message was missed and the following commands received had a
direct connection with it. For example, when the slave could not send the list of charts available on its host and it

> sends in the sequence a 'SET' message on a chart that was missed, the master will show a messages like this:

Reviewer: either "a message" (i.e. 1 message) or "messages" (i.e. many messages) put the correct one.

Author: I rewrite this sentence using plural.

```
ERROR : STREAM_RECEIVER[SLAVE HOSTNAME,[SLAVE IP]:SLAVE PORT] : requested a SET on chart 'CHART NAME' of host 'HOSTNAME', without a dimension. Disabling it.
```

### Slave cannot connect to master

> Sometimes you are type writing the address and port of the master inside stream.conf and you write a wrong information,

Reviewer: When the slave can't connect to a master for any reason (misconfiguration, networking, firewalls, master down), you will see the following in the slave's `error.log`.

Netdata will write a message like this in the slave log

```
ERROR : STREAM_SENDER[HOSTNAME] : Failed to connect to 'MASTER IP', port 'MASTER PORT' (errno 113, No route to host)
```

> This error can also happen case the firewall on master is not allowing connections to the master port.

Reviewer: Remove this line

Author: It was removed

### Is this a Netdata?

> This question can appear when Netdata starts the stream and receives an unexpected response when connecting to the slave for the first time. 

Author: I fixed this, thank you!

This error can appear for a number of different reasons, but the most common is that the master node has SSL activated and the slave sent a plain text response. 
The complete error message will look like this:

```
ERROR : STREAM_SENDER[SLAVE HOSTNAME] : STREAM SLAVE HOSTNAME [send to MASTER HOSTNAME:MASTER PORT]: server is not replying properly (is it a netdata?).
```

### Stream charts wrong

When the slave sends data to master, the charts need to be aligned during the same interval of time. If there are gaps in metrics collection,

> these gaps need to be consistent between slave and master nodes. If there are differences between charts, it often means that your master's `memory mode` is not configured correctly.

Reviewer: I have no idea what you're saying here regarding the gaps and what the solution is. What do you mean not configured correctly? The whole thing needs to be stated differently.

Author: I rewrite this and I also set a link to the documentation for the user see where he can find the correct adjusts for memory mode.

### Forbidding access

If the master reports errors about forbidding access, it could be because of a slow connection between the master and slave nodes.

> But, there are other reasons for this error. The complete message you would see in your log file would look something like this:

Author: The text was creating confusion, I was talking about the options listed in this section, I changed the text to clarify things.

For a practical example see [Monitoring ephemeral nodes](#monitoring-ephemeral-nodes).

## Troubleshooting streaming connections

Sometimes when we are configuring master and slave nodes it is possible to have some errors in the log files, this section
describes these errors in the communication.

### Connection between slave and master is slow

> When we have a slow connection between master and `slave`, Netdata can raise different errors related to this problem,

Reviewer 2: If you are going to use backticks for slave, you might as well use them for master too.

Author: In the beginning I was writing backticks to call attention of the people for both master and slave, but when I began to review I saw that this was not a pattern, after this I began to remove, but I forgot this one. Thank you!

in the slave side we will have the following error message

```
netdata ERROR : STREAM_SENDER[SLAVE HOSTNAME] : STREAM SLAVE HOSTNAME [send to MASTER IP:MASTER PORT]: too many data pending - buffer is X bytes long,
Y unsent - we have sent Z bytes in total, W on this connection. Closing connection to flush the data.
```

where the value X, Y, Z and W are integer numbers.

> in the master side the we can have different reports when the master reads everything from the stream and it did not

Reviewer 2: Capitalize.

Author: I fixed the error, thank you again!

For a practical example see [Monitoring ephemeral nodes](#monitoring-ephemeral-nodes).

## Troubleshooting streaming connections

> Sometimes when we are configuring master and slave nodes we can have some errors in our log files, in this section we are

Author: I understood, I executed a complete review in the text doing changes, after this I moved to the other issues

describing the most common errors that you can see.

### Connection between slave and master is slow

When we have a slow connection between master and slave, Netdata can raise different errors related to this problem,

> in the slave side we will have for the majority of the cases the error message

Author: I did not accept this completely, I changes slave system to slave Netdata, because Netdata is working like slave on the host, can we move with my suggestion?

> in the slave side we will have for the majority of the cases the error message

Reviewer 3: That works just fine, thanks.

```
netdata ERROR : STREAM_SENDER[SLAVE HOSTNAME] : STREAM SLAVE HOSTNAME [send to MASTER IP:MASTER PORT]: too many data pending - buffer is X bytes long,
Y unsent - we have sent Z bytes in total, W on this connection. Closing connection to flush the data.
```

> where the value X, Y, Z and W are integer numbers.

Author: I accepted everything, thanks!

On the other hand, in the master side we can have different reports where the most common message that you can see is

```
netdata ERROR : STREAM_RECEIVER[SLAVE HOSTNAME,[SLAVE IP]:SLAVE PORT] : read failed: end of file
```

> Another common problem that can happen is the slave sends only part of the message for the master, in this case the master

Author: I also accepted all suggestion here.

> will not have condition to understand the message received and it will write inside error.log

Author: Thanks!

```

### Slave cannot connect to master

Sometimes we are type writing the address and port of the master inside stream.conf and we write a wrong information, Netdata will write a message like this in the slave log

```
ERROR : STREAM_SENDER[HOSTNAME] : Failed to connect to 'MASTER IP', port 'MASTER PORT' (errno 113, No route to host)
```

this error can also happen case the firewall on master is not allowing connections to the master port.

### Is this a Netdata?

The question that names this section can appear when Netdata is starting the stream, this happens when the slave does not receive the
expected return for the beginning of the communication. There are different motives for this happen and the main motive among them is the fact that master was
configured with SSL activated while the slave tried to send a plain text information. The complete error message will have the format

```
ERROR : STREAM_SENDER[SLAVE HOSTNAME] : STREAM SLAVE HOSTNAME [send to MASTER HOSTNAME:MASTER PORT]: server is not replying properly (is it a netdata?).
```

### Stream charts wrong

> When the slave is sending data to master it cannot have a different chart that it has locally, case there are differences between the charts, this can mean that your master

Reviewer 3: Can you clarify what you mean by "it cannot have a different chart"? What kind of differences could there be?

Author: I was talking about different images, for example, I cannot have on my slave a chart without gaps and on the master I have gaps in the exactly same chart(system.cpu), they must be 100% equal for the same interval of time.

Reviewer 3: So maybe this will work?

> When the slave sends data to master, the charts need to be aligned during the same interval of time. If there are gaps in metrics collection, these gaps need to be consistent between slave and master nodes. If there are differences between charts, it often means that your master's `memory mode` is not configured correctly.

Author: I agree 100%, I overwrite the previous text with this one. Thank you very much.

memory mode is not configured correctly.

### Forbidding access

> These are error reported in the master side, they can also happen because there is a slow connection between master and slave, but this

Reviewer 3: > If the master reports errors about forbidding access, it could be because of a slow connection between the master and slave nodes. But, there are other reasons for this error. The complete message you would see in your log file would look something like this:

Author: I overwrite the whole text with your suggestion.

is not the unique motive, so we decided to write a specific topic for them. The complete message that you will see in your log file will be like this

```
STREAM [receive from [SLAVE HOSTNAME]:SLAVE IP]: `MESSAGE`. Forbidding access."
```

where `MESSAGE` will have one of the following patterns:

- `request without KEY` : The message received is incomplete and the KEY value can be API, hostname, machine GUID.
- `API key 'VALUE' is not valid GUID`: The UUID received from slave does not have the format defined in RFC 4122(https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4122)
- `machine GUID 'VALUE' is not GUID.`: This error with machine GUID is like the previous one.
- `API key 'VALUE' is not allowed`: This stream has a wrong API key.
- `API key 'VALUE' is not permitted from this IP`: The IP is not allowed to use STREAM with this master.
- `machine GUID 'VALUE' is not allowed.`: The GUID that is trying to send stream is not allowed.
- `Machine GUID 'VALUE' is not permitted from this IP. `: The IP does not match the pattern or IP allowed to connect to use stream.

### Netdata could not create a stream

> The connection between master and slave is a stream by definition, when the master has problems to convert the initial connection

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The connection between master and slave is a stream. When the master has problems to convert the initial connection
```

Author: Thanks.

> to a stream, it will write the following messages inside error.log:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
to a stream, it will write the following messages inside `error.log`:
```

```
file descriptor given is not a valid stream
```

> and after this it will close the stream.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After logging this error, Netdata will close the stream.
```

Author: I accepted all the suggestion here.
